zprint/README.md, before:

# zprint action

## Validations on Push

This actions will check the formating of the project, using
[boot-fmt](https://github.com/pesterhazy/boot-fmt).

In contrast of [cljfmt](../cljfmt), this action does not require installation of
the projects dependencies, as it has global execution access.

The container configures [zprint](https://github.com/kkinnear/zprint) to search
for configuration files in the current project, allowing you to commit the
formatting rules as part of the project.

For more configuration details, check upstream
[documentation](https://github.com/kkinnear/zprint#how-to-configure-zprint)

## Fixes on Pull Request review

This action provides automated fixes using Pull Request review comments.

If the comment starts with `fix $action_name` or `fix zprint`, a new commit will
be added to the branch with the automated fixes applied.

**Supports**: autofix on push

## Example workflow

```hcl
workflow "on push" {
  on = "push"
  resolves = ["zprint"]
}

# Used for fix on review
workflow "on review" {
  resolves = ["zprint"]
  on = "pull_request_review"
}

action "zprint" {
  uses = "bltavares/actions/zprint@master"
  # Enable autofix on push
  # args = ["autofix"]
  # Used for pushing changes for `fix` comments on review
  secrets = ["GITHUB_TOKEN"]
}
```

Commit message:

Use cljfmt without installing projects dependency
When using `cljfmt` action, we ended up downloading all the dependencies
of the project, as it would be integrated as a `lein` plugin.

This was cumbersome, as it required exposing extra configuration to
access the project's dependencies as well. Ideally, to reduce the
adoption, it would be better to use `cljfmt` as a globally accessible
tool, without the need to access the project's dependencies from GitHub
Actions' execution environment.

There is a [previously undocumented feature](https://github.com/weavejester/cljfmt/pull/164)
on `cljfmt` which exposes it as a `deps-tools` executable.

This commit refactors the execution to run the formatter from a global
execution path. This means we don't need extra access to the project
dependencies.

The configuration to use the formatter don't live anymore inside
`lein`'s `project.clj`, and now is expected to live on their own
file inside the project, as it is documented.

We are also taking a chance to refactor a couple of things on the
`zprint` action, which is somewhat complementary to `cljfmt`.

zprint/README.md, after:

# zprint action

## Validations on Push

This actions will check the formatting of the project, using
[boot-fmt](https://github.com/pesterhazy/boot-fmt).

The container configures [zprint](https://github.com/kkinnear/zprint) to search
for configuration files in the current project, allowing you to commit the
formatting rules as part of the project.

For more configuration details, check upstream
[documentation](https://github.com/kkinnear/zprint#how-to-configure-zprint)

Alternatively, there is also [cljfmt](../cljfmt) action available.

## Fixes on Pull Request review

This action provides automated fixes using Pull Request review comments.

If the comment starts with `fix $action_name` or `fix zprint`, a new commit will
be added to the branch with the automated fixes applied.

**Supports**: autofix on push

## Example workflow

```hcl
workflow "on push" {
  on = "push"
  resolves = ["zprint"]
}

# Used for fix on review
workflow "on review" {
  resolves = ["zprint"]
  on = "pull_request_review"
}

action "zprint" {
  uses = "bltavares/actions/zprint@master"
  # Enable autofix on push
  # args = ["autofix"]
  # Used for pushing changes for `fix` comments on review
  secrets = ["GITHUB_TOKEN"]
}
```
